# Azure Data Lake Store Transfer Tool (AdlTransfer)AdlTransfer is designed for high-performance uploading and downloading data to and from Microsoft Azure Data Lake Store.==Command Line Usage==The basic syntax for the AdlTransfer tool is    AdlTransfer {Source} {Target} {AccountName} [OPTIONS]===Options===| -u, | --user=name | The name of Azure Active Directory user or the client id of the Service Principal. || -p, | --password=password | The password of Azure Active Directory user or the authentication key of the Service Principal. || -i, | --spi, --serviceprincipal | Use an Azure Active Directory Service Principal to authenticate. For more details how to create a Service Principal see https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/resource-group-authenticate-service-principal/ || -f, | --filethreads=count | The maximum count of threads used to upload each file. || -c, | --concurrentfiles=number | The maximum number of concurrent file uploads. || -s, | --segment=length | The maximum length of each segement (in bytes). The default is 256mb, which gives you optimal performance. || -b, | --binary | The input file will be treated as a binary. Otherwise the file will be treated as delimited input. || -o, | --overwrite | Overwrite the target stream, if it already exists. || -r, | --recursive | Recursively upload the source folder and its subfolders. This is only valid for folder uploads and will be ignored for file uploads. ||     | --resume | Resume a previously interrupted upload. || -d, | --download | Download the file(s) instead of uploading. || -m, | --metadata=path | The directory path where to store the local upload metadata file while the upload is in progress. || -v, | --verbose | Provide detailed status messages. ||-h, -?, | --help | Show help text. ||     | --samples | Show Command line samples. |===SamplesUploading all files from a local folder to Azure Data Lake Store using the logged in user or asking for user credentials, for example, upload 'C:\MyLocalPath\' to '/MyRemotePath'    AdlTransfer C:\MyLocalPath\ /MyRemotePath MyAdlAccountNameUploading all files from a local folder to Azure Data Lake Store using a user name and password, for example, upload 'C:\MyLocalPath\' to '/MyRemotePath'    AdlTransfer C:\MyLocalPath\ /MyRemotePath MyAdlAccountName -u MyUserName -p MyPasswordUploading a single file from a local folder to Azure Data Lake Store using the logged in user or asking for user credentials, for example, upload 'C:\MyLocalPath\MyFile.txt' to '/MyRemotePath/MyFile.txt'    AdlTransfer C:\MyLocalPath\MyFile.txt /MyRemotePath/MyFile.txt MyAdlAccountNameDownloading all files from a path within Azure Data Lake Store to a local folder using the logged in user or asking for user credentials, for example, download '/MyRemotePath' to 'C:\MyLocalPath\'    AdlTransfer /MyRemotePath C:\MyLocalPath MyAdlAccountName -dDownloading all files from a path within Azure Data Lake Store to a local folder using an Azure Active Directory Service Principal, for example, download '/MyRemotePath' to 'C:\MyLocalPath\'    AdlTransfer /MyRemotePath C:\MyLocalPath MyAdlAccountName -u {ClientId} -p {AuthenticationKey} -spi -d